{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2636
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww28600\viewh18000\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs66 \cf0 Storage \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs42 \cf0 \
File Storage is organising and representing data as a hierarchy of folders. Similar to what we have on our systems rn.\
The problem with this is that it isn\'92t scalable. Why? Well if you exhaust your SSD rn, you can\'92t really do anything unless you buy a new SSD, it is limited.\
\
Block Storage: this is like file storage systems but you store \'91blocks\'92 or chunks of each file on a distributed network. Does it have a higher throughput? Yes. Blocks distributed over different machines/disks can have multiple spindles/readers working on a single file. Making it super fast for retrieval compared to the file storage system. it however isn\'92t scalable too, sadly, an example for this is HDFS.\
\
Object Storage: Here, over your traditional FS layer, you have an object-storage-services layer on top, this makes a unified way of storage across various disk formats. This makes storage in such a way, that installing a new HDD/SSD will still use the objectifying(hehe) layer on top, making things unified and easily scalable.\
\
While studying about cloud storage we aim to study what\'92s going on behind the scenes in an application like, drive or so.\
We aim to see how a ubiquitous, reliable and on demand storage is possible on remote servers ~ this is called storage virtualisation.\
\
Cloud storage can be seen as a virtual storage pool. \
Examples: Object stores : S3, Openstack swift , Azure storage.\
\
How does cloud storage communication even happen?\
	> End point devices like workstations or mobile phones communicate via a client application.\
	> The first point of contact is a representation server that\'92s sorta a proxy for the actual server that hosts the application\
	> The application server hosts the logical FS layer and works on resolving the objects/blocks \
	> \
\
Layers of Cloud storage:\
	> User access layer - the client application\
	> Data service layer - this deals with the users and manages multi user data sharing and so on\
	> Data management - works on user management, security, replica management and so on.\
	> Data storage - storage devices over a WAN managing your data\
\
Consequences of using Cloud storage:\
	> Dramatic reduction in total cost of ownership:\
		Its much cheaper to buy storage from google than get a seagate SSD of 256Gigs\
	> Unlimited scalability: \
		easier to add more storage units to your property\
	> Elasticity:\
		Dynamic reductions and increases as per resource requirements.\
	> On demand:\
		Well, you\'92re using cloud. It\'92s fairly evident that this application/resource is suit-to-client, based on current requirements.}